h2. Content Rules

Content Rules is a module that facilitates global HTML content restriction
across Aloha Editor. It is designed as a single point of configuration that will
provide a contract to uniformly effect editing interactions and the user
interface in cohesive way.

endprologue.


h3. Informer not enforcer

Plugin developers should note that there are myriad ways to insert content into
an editable and Content Rules does not provide a mechanism to forcibly prevent
this. It remains the responsibility of all implementations to use Content Rules
to check whether the content that is to be inserted in a given editable is
permitted according to Content Rules configuration.


h3. Configuration

There are 3 configurable settings for using Content Rules:
* "whitelist":#whitelists
* "blacklist":#blacklists
* "translation":#translation

All these options targets editables using "CSS
selectors":http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/selector.html.

NOTE: If not Content Rules configuration is provided then all elements will be
considered permissable with regards to Content Rules.  The same is true for any
editable which does not match any configured selectors.

h3. Whitelists 

Whitelist configuration explicitly specifies which type of elements are to be
permitted in editables.

For example, the following configuration stipulates that all editables which
match the selector +*+ are permitted to only contain the elements @<b>@, @<i>@,
and @<u>@.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentRules = {
	whitelist: {
		'*': ['b', 'i', 'u']
	}
}
</javascript>

It is possible to combine whitelist settings across different selectors. All
settings whose selectors match an editable will take effect when checking
Content Rules.

The configuration below permits all editables to contain @<b>@, @<i>@, and @<u>@
elements, as in the example before. In addition, however, the second selector
matches editables with the class name @longform@. Since any editable matching
the selector +.longform+ also matches the selector +*+, this editable will not
only be allowed to contain @<p>@ and @<h2>@ elements, but will also be allowed
to contain @<b>@, @<i>@, and @<u>@ elements.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentRules = {
	whitelist: {
		'*': ['b', 'i', 'u'],
		'.longform': ['p', 'h2']
	}
}
</javascript>


h3. Blacklists

In cases where only a few elements are to be disallowed in an editable, it would
be cumbersome to have to specify every single element that is permitted, since
this would require writing out most of all the HTML elements.

This is where blacklists are useful. Blacklists are opposite to whitelists in
that elements that are specified in a blacklist are the only elements that are
not allowed in a matching editable.

The configuration below declares that no editable is permitted to contain
@<script>@ or @<style>@ elements; all other elements are permitted.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentRules = {
	blacklist: {
		'*': ['script', 'style']
	}
}
</javascript>

NOTE: Blacklist settings always win over whitelist settings.


h3. Using blacklists and whitelists together

It is possible to combine both whitelists and blacklists as follows:

In the case below, all editables are permitted to contain all the elements
specified in the whitelist array for the selector +*+. The blacklist setting for
+.title+ forbids the a subset of the lists permitted in the whitelist.

This means that an editable with the class name @title@ will be permitted to
contain all elements whitelisted against the +*+ selector, but unlike other
editables, it will be further restricted to only allow only those elements that
are not blacklist specified in +.title+.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentRules = {
	whitelist: {
		'*': ['p', 'h1', 'h2', 'h3', 'span', 'b', 'i', 'u']
	},
	blacklist: {
		'.title': ['p', 'h1', 'h2', 'h3']
	}
}
</javascript>

NOTE: Text nodes (@#text@) are automatically permitted unless explicitly
specified in a blacklist setting.

NOTE: Aloha Blocks (@.aloha-block@) and elements inside blocks automatically skip the check and are permitted by default.

h3. Translation

Translations allows for uniform translation between visually paritable semantic
elements such as from @i@ → @em@, or @strong@ → @b@.  Selectors work in the
same way they do for whitelists and blacklists.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentRules = {
	translate: {
		'.blog': {
			'i': 'em',
			'b': 'strong'
		}
	}
}
</javascript>


h3. isAllowed()

In order to use content rules in your implementation, you will need to require
the +aloha/content-rules+ module.

To checkout whether an element of a given node name is permitted in an editable,
one should use the +isAllowed()+ function:

<javascript>
require(['PubSub', 'aloha/content-rules'], function (PubSub, ContentRules) {
	PubSub.sub('aloha.editable.activated', function (message) {
		var isBoldPermitted = ContentRules.isAllowed(message.editable, 'b');
		if (isBoldPermitted) {
			// ... do something cool ...
		}
	});
});
</javascript>

NOTE: isAllowed() does not indicate whether an element is allowed in an editable
based on HTML schema rules, but simply on arbitrary Content Rules configuration.


h3. translate()

Given an editable, and a node name, this function returns a translation of that
node name into another, according to configured Content Rules. If no translation
has been mapped in the settings, than none will be done by translate(), and the
same node name will be retured instead.
