h2. Understanding the Aloha Editor core

After reading this guide, you will be able to:

* Understand how Aloha Editor initialized
* Use basic functionality the core provides
* Understand Aloha Editables, and what they do
* Core Aloha Editor events

endprologue.

h3. Editable elements

Aloha can be used with the following HTML text elements:

<javascript>
	[ 'a', 'abbr', 'address', 'article', 'aside',
	'b', 'bdo', 'blockquote',  'cite', 'code', 'command',
	'del', 'details', 'dfn', 'div', 'dl', 'em', 'footer',
	'h1', 'h2', 'h3', 'h4', 'h5', 'h6', 'header', 'i',
	'ins', 'menu', 'nav', 'p', 'pre', 'q', 'ruby',
	'section', 'small', 'span', 'strong', 'sub', 'sup',
	'textarea', 'var' ]
</javascript>

Not supported HTML elements:

<javascript>
	[ 'canvas', 'audio', 'br', 'embed', 'fieldset', 'hgroup', 'hr',
	'iframe', 'img', 'input', 'map', 'script', 'select', 'style',
	'svg', 'table', 'ul', 'video', 'ol', 'form', 'noscript' ]
</javascript>

Note if you are using a textarea with Aloha:
If the textarea has a HTML ID (eg. mytxtarea) the ID of the Aloha editable will be "-aloha" suffixed (eg. mytxtarea-aloha).


h3. Core files

WARNING: TODO describe file contents

* +src/lib/aloha.js+
* +src/lib/aloha-bootstrap.js+
* +src/lib/aloha/core.js+
* ...

h3. Initialization Process

When Aloha Editor is loading several steps are completed until the initialization process is finished.

WARNING: TODO add description for init process and events!

<javascript>
// init process taken from core.js
Aloha.stage = 'loadPlugins';
Aloha.loadPlugins(function(){
	Aloha.stage = 'initAloha';
	Aloha.initAloha(function(){
		Aloha.stage = 'initPlugins';
		Aloha.initPlugins(function(){
			Aloha.stage = 'initGui';
			Aloha.initGui(function(){
				Aloha.stage = 'alohaReady';
				Aloha.trigger('aloha-ready');
			});
		});
	});
});
</javascript>

Aloha Editor will also add a CSS class to the html DOM node during it's @initAloha@ stage.
The following classes will be used:

|_. Browser |_. Class |
| Chrome or Safari | @aloha-webkit@ |
| Opera | @aloha-opera@ |
| Firefox | @aloha-mozilla@ |
| Opera | @aloha-webkit@ |
| Internet Explorer 7* | @aloha-ie7@ |
| Internet Explorer 8* | @aloha-ie8@ |
| Internet Explorer 9* | @aloha-ie9@ |
| Internet Explorer 10* | @aloha-ie10@ |

NOTE: * Internet Explorer Version Numbers will be derived by turning the browser version into an integer
			    

h3. How to use require

WARNING: TODO describe how Aloha.require is used

h3. Internationalization

WARNING: TODO describe

h3. Logging

WARNING: TODO describe

h3. Utilities

WARNING: TODO describe GENTICS.Utils.dom and the like

h3. Events

see: Guides page: Events

h3. Editables

WARNING: Documentation pending.

h3. HotKeys

WARNING: Documentation pending.

Add and remove HotKey handler for keyboard events supporting almost any key combination.


The syntax is as follows:
<javascript>
    $(document).bind('keydown', 'ctrl+a', fn);
</javascript>


Example configuration for inserting a Link with the HotKey `Ctrl-u` (default: `Ctrl-l`)
<javascript>
Aloha.settings = {
	plugins: {
		link: {
			hotKey: { insertLink: 'ctrl+u' }
		}
	}
}
</javascript>

## Types
Supported types are `'keydown'`, `'keyup'` and `'keypress'`

### Addendum
Firefox is the most liberal one in the manner of letting you capture all short-cuts even those that are built-in in the browser such as `Ctrl-t` for new tab, or `Ctrl-a` for selecting all text. You can always bubble them up to the browser by returning `true` in your handler.

Others, (IE) either let you handle built-in short-cuts, but will add their functionality after your code has executed. Or (Opera/Safari) will *not* pass those events to the DOM at all.

*So, if you bind `Ctrl-Q` or `Alt-F4` and your Safari/Opera window is closed don't be surprised.*


Code from: https://github.com/jeresig/jquery.hotkeys
