h2. The Browser Plugin

In this guide we give an overview about:

* What is this plugin used for
* How you can use and
* How you cann Extend it

endprologue.

WARNING: This guide is currently work-in-progress.

h3. What the Browser Plugin can do for you?

The *Browser Plugin* (Browser) provides a good possibility for users to browse, search and select any kind of files in repositories.

These are some specific kinds of files the user can look for:
* Websites
* Images
* Folders
* etc..

h3. Extending the Browser for your needs

h4. Using Configuration

Here we can see the default options:

<javascript>
	var options = jQuery.extend({
			// Set to true for development and debugging
			verbose : false,
			// The repository manager which this browser will interface with
			repositoryManager : null,
			repositoryFilter  : [],
			objectTypeFilter  : [],
			renditionFilter   : ['cmis:none'], // ['*']
			filter : ['url'],
			// DOMObject to which this instance of browser is bound to
			element : undefined,
			// root folder id
			rootFolderId : 'aloha',
			// root path to where Browser resources are located
			rootPath  : '',
			treeWidth : 300,
			listWidth : 'auto',
			pageSize  : 10,
			columns : {
				icon    : {title: '',        width: 30,  sortable: false, resizable: false},
				name    : {title: i18n.t('Name'),    width: 250, sorttype: 'text'},
				url     : {title: i18n.t('URL'),     width: 250, sorttype: 'text'},
				preview : {title: i18n.t('Preview'), width: 200, sorttype: 'text'}
			},
			isFloating : false
		}, opts || {});
</javascript>

h4. Build your own specific Extension

Basically you are able override every function, for example the init() to use custom options:

<javascript>
var MyCustomBrowser = Browser.extend({
	
	init: function (config, oneMoreParameter) {
		this._super(config);

		this.moreParameter = oneMoreParameter;

		... do something with it
	}
})
</javascript>

h5. Customize table rows and columns

h3. Capability for multiple Instances

In the current version (0.20) there is the possibility to add multiple browser instances to a page.

* November 24, 2011: Initial version by Leonard Osang

