h2. The Validation Plugin

The validation plugin allows editables to be validated against predefined tests
for correctness, and then have specific processes be undertaken in response to
the result of these tests.

endprologue.

h3. Dependencies

In order to use editable validation in Aloha Editor, the first thing you will
need to do is to include the @extra/validation@ and @common/contenthandler@
plugins in your @data-aloha-plugins@ list in the script tag which loads
@aloha.js@.

<html>
	<script src="aloha.js" data-aloha-plugins"common/contenthandler,
	                                          extra/validation"></script>
</html>

NOTE: @common/contenthandler@ must be included for @extra/validation@ to work
	  because the validation plugin uses "Content
	  Handlers":plugin_contenthandler.html internally and therefore depends on
	  them.

h3. Configuration

Loading the necessary plugins will make the validation features available in
Aloha Editor, but that alone will not result in any editables being validated.
For that to happen, you must configure which editables you wish to be
validated, and what tests to run on each editable to validated it.

At least two properties must be configured in the
+Aloha.settings.plugins.validation+ object to see automatic validation at work:
+config+, which indicates *what* should be validated and *how* validity is
tested, and at least one of either +hooks+, +channels+, or +events+, which will
indicate *when* validation should be run.

h4. config

+config+ is an object that maps strings of jQuery selectors against functions
or regular expressions which will test the validity of any editable that is
matched by the selector.

NOTE: An editable is "matched" by a selector when an editable and a selector
	  string has an "$.fn.is&#40;&#41;":http://api.jquery.com/is/ relationship.

*Example:*

<javascript>
	Aloha.settings.plugins.validation = {
		config: {

			// Tests all editables.
			// Editable is invalid if it contains any <script>, or <style>
			// elements.
			"*": function (content, editable, $) {
				return 0 === $('<div>' + content + '</div>').find('script,style');
			},

			// Tests editables with the id "weekday".
			// Editable is invalid unless the entirety of its contents is a
			// name of one of the weekdays.
			"#weekday": /^(monday|tuesday|wednesday|thursday|friday)$/i
		}
	}
</javascript>

It is important to know that an editable with the id "weekday" matches both
configured selectors and therefore will be subject to both validation tests.
Notice that both functions, and regular expression are allowed as validation
tests, but anything else is invalid configuration.

WARNING: Anything other than a function or a regular expression will result in
		 an error message, and that test being ignored.  So a configuration
		 setting like
		 @Aloha.settings.plugins.validation.config['#my-editable'] = '<b>Lorem
		 ipsum</b>';@ will cause the following message to be logged in the
		 console: *@validation/validation-plugin: Encountered property
		 "<b>Lorem ipsum</b>" of type string when a RegExp or Function is
		 required.@*

Consider the example validation function:

<javascript>
	function (content, editable, $) {
		return 0 === $('<div>' + content + '</div>').find('script,style');
	},
</javascript>

There are a couple of things about the above example to take note of as
important guidelines concerning how to write your own validation functions:

 * It receives 3 parameters: The first arguments is a string containing the
   contents of the editable that is to be validated, the second, an
   Aloha.Editable object, and the third is a reference to the jQuery instance
   that is used by Aloha Editor internally.
 * It is a predicate (a function that returns truthy or falsey values).
 * It is a "pure" function--meaning that it does not alter external state
   outside of itself.
 * It is not asynchronous.
 * It is relatively cheap, and is not space/time-complex.

The correct signature of a validation function (in "Google Closure
Compiler
Annotation":https://developers.google.com/closure/compiler/docs/js-for-compiler
form) will look like this:
*@function(string, Aloha.Editable, jQuery):boolean@*

WARNING: It is strongly encouraged for test functions to *not* alter the
		 parameters that are passed to it, or any external state.  However it
		 may be necessary to change something outside the function to implement
		 more advanced validation. *Please see the section on "Advanced
		 Configuration" to learn how to accomplish such things as validation
		 failure messages.*

*Cavet about the content string:* The content string that is passed as the
first argument into the test functions contains the contents of the editable
which is to be validated.  This  string will be the result of calling
getContents() on the respective editable.  It means that all content handlers
that have been configured to process the content when getContents() is called,
would have handled the content before it reaches the validation test functions.
Also, if your validation tests are being triggered from the
@smartContentChange@ hook, then the content string will also be subject to any
content handlers that have been registered for @smartContentChange@, and in the
order they are configured.

Therefore:
<javascript>
Aloha.settings.contentHandler = {
	smartContentChange: ['word', 'validation', 'sanitize']
}
</javascript>

In the above example, the content string that is passed to your validation
tests will have been processed by the "word" content handler but not the
"sanitize" content handler.

h4. hooks, events, and channels

It is possible to have validation be triggered automatically at predefined
interaction points using one or more of the properties +hooks+, +events+, or
+channels+.  Each one is a list of strings of PubSub channels, or content
handler triggers hooks, or event names.

*Example:*

<javascript>
	Aloha.settings.plugins.validation = {

		// Validate the involved editable when one of these content handling
		// triggers is fired.
		hooks: ['initEditable', 'smartContentChange'],

		// Validate the active editable when this event is fired.
		events: ['aloha-editable-deactivated'],

		// Validate the active editable when a message is published to this
		// channel.
		channels: ['aloha.selection.context-change']
	}
</javascript>

NOTE: There are four available content handler hooks: *insertHtml*,
      *initEditable*, *getContents*, *smartContentChange*

h4. onValidation()

If you provide a @onValidation()@ function in your settings, each time that an
editable is validated, your function will be called.  It will receive the
editable that was last validated as the first argument, and a boolean,
indicating whether or not the editable failed validation, as the second
argument.

*Example:*

<javascript>
	Aloha.settings.plugins.validation = {
		onValidation: function (editable, isValid) {
			if (isValid) {
				editable.obj.removeClass('validation-failed');
			} else {
				editable.obj.addClass('validation-failed');
			}
		}
	}
</javascript>


NOTE: Be aware that validation on each editable is "fail-fast"--that is, as
	  soon a the first validation tests fails, the editable is considered
	  invalid, and no further tests are run.

h3. validate(): Manual validation

There may be times where it is necessary to manually trigger validation, when
automatic hooks are not suitable.  In these cases, the @Validation.validate()@
function is useful.

The @validate()@ function call be called with a single editable, or a list of
editables.  All editables that are given to the function will be validated.  If
nothing is passed into the function, then all available editables will be
validated.  This is useful for doing such things are pre-save validation in
your application.

The return value of @validate()@ is the set of all editables that failed
validation.

*Example:*

<javascript>
	if (Aloha.features.validation) {
		Aloha.require(['validation/validation-plugin'], function (Validation) {
			var failures = Validation.validate();
			if (failures.length) {
				console.error(failures.length + ' editables failed validation.');
			} else {
				console.log('All editables are valid.');
			}
		});
	}
</javascript>

NOTE: Notice that you can determine whether or not the @extra/validation@
	  plugin is loaded based on whether the +Aloha.features.validation+ flag is
	  set to @true@.


h3. Advanced Configuration Example

<html>
	<div class="validation-wrapper">
		<div id="#my-editable">
			[Write some content in here, but no lists allowed!]
		</div>
		<ul class="validation-errors">
			<li class="validation-error-lists">Lists are not allowed</li>
			<li class="validation-error-images">Images are not allowed</li>
			<li class="validation-error-profanity">Profanity is not allowed</li>
		</ul>
	</div>
</html>

<javascript>
	Aloha.settings.plugins.validation = {
		config: {
			'#my-editable': function (content, editable, $) {
				var valid = 0 === $('<div>' + content + '</div>').find('ul,ol').length;
				if (!valid) {
					editable.obj.closest('.validation-wrapper')
					        .addClass('validation-error-lists');
				}
				return valid;
			}
		},
		onValidation: function (editable, isValid) {
			if (isValid) {
				editable.obj.closest('.validation-wrapper')
				        .removeClass('validation-failed')
				        .removeClass('validation-error-lists');
			} else {
				editable.obj.closest('.validation-wrapper')
				        .addClass('validation-failed');
			}
		}
	}

</javascript>

<css>
	.validation-errors {
		display: none;
	}
	.validation-error li {
		display: none;
	}
	.validation-failed .validation-errors {
		display: block;
	}
	.validation-error-lists .validation-error-lists {
		display: block;
	}
</css>

h3. References
 * "Google Closure Compiler
    Annotation":https://developers.google.com/closure/compiler/docs/js-for-compiler 
 * "Content Handlers":plugin_contenthandler.html
 * "Events":events.html
 * "Dependencies":dependencies.html
