h2. RequireJS

endprologue.

h3. RequireJS modules explained

We use "RequireJS":http://requirejs.org to manage JavaScript dependencies, that's why some
basic understanding is very helpful. By using RequireJS, we gain some nice benefits: First, we the dependency management between JavaScript files is done for us, meaning they are included in the correct order.

The basic element of RequireJS is a so called +module+ which is one file that defines and exports a JavaScript object. This reference can be used in other modules by *requiring* that module.

NOTE: A module does not need to define its own name, it is simply named by its location on the file system.

Modules are created using +define(dependencies, callback)+, where the first parameter @dependencies@ is an array of other RequireJS modules this plugin needs in order to function properly. The second parameter is @callback@ is a function which is executed *as soon as all dependencies are loaded*. The first dependency is passed to the @callback@ as first parameter, the second dependency as the second, and so on.

NOTE: Circular dependencies need some special treatment. It is most often a sign of bad code, but if you need to do this, follow the "guide at the RequireJS website":http://requirejs.org/docs/api.html#circular.

You may use modules by requireing them if you specified the dependency you may use:

<javascript>
	var module = require( 'module' );
</javascript>

If you want to load a module dynamically without defining a dependency you may use:

<javascript>
	// note the array!
	require( ['module'], function( module ) {
		// module available here
	});
</javascript>


h3. Using require

You may user require to define modules as well as requiring dynamically other modules.

To define a module you need to define it with its dependencies and a callback function. The callback function gets the defined modules as parameters in order you defined them.
<javascript filename="myplugin/lib/module.js">
define(
[ 'dependendmodule1', 'dependendmodule2' ],
function( dependendmodule1, dependendmodule2 ) {
	"use strict";

	// you can use  dependendmodule1, dependendmodule2 here. 
	// both are loaded.

	return {};

});
</javascript>

You do not need to define all parameter of the callback function but +require+ the module as needed. In order to not interfere with other modules we require all Aloha Editor modules in the +aloha+ context. The configuration is available in +Aloha.settings.requireConf+. The method +Aloha.require()+ is a shorthand to require with the Aloha Editor configuration and additionally gives you the +Aloha+ object an argument if you pass only a callback function or as return if you pass no argument at all. 

<javascript filename="myplugin/lib/module.js">
define(
[ 'dependendmodule1', 'dependendmodule2' ],
function() {
	"use strict";

	var 
		Aloha = Aloha.require(),
		dependendmodule1 = require( Aloha.settings.requireConf, 'dependendmodule1' ),
		dependendmodule2 = Aloha.require( 'dependendmodule2' ); // shorthand to the above
		
	Aloha.require( function( localAloha ) {
		// localAloha is available here  
	};
	
	return {};

});
</javascript>

You may also require module or Aloha itself on demand
<javascript filename="someJS.js">
( function() {
	"use strict";

	Aloha.require( function( Aloha ) {
		// localAloha is available here
		// but not neccessarily fully initialized
		Aloha.jQuery('body').bind('aloha', function() {
			// Aloha is initialized here
		});  
	});
	
	Aloha.require( ['dependendmodule1'], function( dependendmodule1 ) {
		// dependendmodule1 is available here  
	};
	
	return {};

});
</javascript>

h3. Aloha plugins and their dependencies

In the following example, we define a components plugin with two modules. The first module @componenttype@ defines two classes. The second module @component@ has a dependency to @componenttype@, and RequireJS injects what has been returned by @componenttype@.

The plugin requires the module +aloha/plugin+ which gives you the plugin factory method +create()+
<javascript filename="plugin1/lib/plugin1-plugin.js">
define(
[ 'aloha/plugin' ],
function( plugin ) {
    "use strict";
	// we do nothing but provide component modules...
    return plugin.create( 'plugin1', {});
});
</javascript>

The +componenttye+ has no dependency thus the dependency array is empty.
<javascript filename="plugin1/lib/abstractmodule.js">
define(
[], // no dependency
function() {
	"use strict";

	var abstractModule = Class.extend({
    	doOther: function() {
    		return 'didOther';
    	}
    });

	return abstractModule;

});
</javascript>

The +component+ depends on the local module +componenttype+ and defines its dependency.
<javascript filename="plugin1/lib/module.js">
define(
['./abstractmodule'], // dependency in the same path
function( abstractModule ) {
    "use strict";

    var module = abstractModule.extend({
		doSome: function() {
			return 'didSome';
		}
    });
    return new module();

});
</javascript>


h4. Cross plugin dependencies

If we want to use cross plugin modules you should not define a dependency on +plugin1/module+ from plugin1 because that would hinder your plugin from working, because of the unfullfilled dependency. Instead require the module in your code with a +Aloha.require()+ and extend the module with our own function when plugin2 is loaded. If another plugin would require +plugin1/module+ it would have our extended functionality. 

<javascript filename="plugin2/lib/plugin2-plugin.js">
define(
[ 'aloha/plugin' ],
function( plugin, module ) {
    "use strict";
    
    // now we require the the modue of plugin1
    Aloha.require( [ 'plugin1/module' ], function( module ) }
 	   // module is available here
    	module.doThis = function() {
    		return 'didThis';
    	};
    });
    
	// we do nothing but provide component modules...
    return plugin.create( 'plugin2', {});
});
</javascript>

h3. Aloha require path mapping for plugins

So, at which place does Aloha look up modules? We'll explain this with a few examples:

|_. Definition in RequireJS |_. File Name |
| @myplugin/foo@ | @path_to_bundle/myplugin/lib/foo.js@ <br /> Including other RequireJS modules is the most common case |
| @myplugin/vendor/legacy_lib@ | @path_to_bundle/myplugin/vendor/legacy_lib.js@ <br /> Include a legacy library |
| @css!myplugin/css/cssfile.css@ | @path_to_bundle/myplugin/css/cssfile.css@ <br /> Includes the CSS file in the document @<head>@. |
| @i18n!myplugin/nls/i18n.js@ | uses +Aloha.settings.locale+ or tries to detect the language from the browser. |
| @text!myplugin/res/template.html@ | Load the content of a text file (e.g. templates). |

NOTE: The bundle name is not part of the RequireJS definition, as this is installation-specific. You as plugin developer should not care about where other plugins are located on disk.

h3. Changelog

* July 3, 2011: Initial version by "Sebastian Kurfürst":credits.html#skurfuerst and "Christopher Hlubek":credits.html#hlubek
