h2. Sidebar

The Sidebar is an HTML container you can use in your own implementation.

endprologue.


h3. Overview

Aloha Editor comes with two preconfigured Sidebars that can be referenced via the @Aloha.Sidebar.*@ property:

<javascript>
Aloha.Sidebar.left; // references the left Sidebar
Aloha.Sidebar.right; // references the right Sidebar
</javascript>

h3. Sidebar

Aloha Editor's Sidebar acts as a container for Panels where you can put html content like forms. It comes with an API that allows you to control all of its functions:

<javascript>
// slide the right sidebar open
Aloha.Sidebar.right.open();
</javascript>

h4. Sidebar API

You can use the following Sidebar methods in your implementations:

|_. Method |_. Description |
| show() | Show the Sidebar |
| hide() | Hide the Sidebar |
| getPanelById(id) | Retrieve a Panel by it's id |
| open() | Slide the Sidebar open |
| close() | Close the Sidebar |
| activatePanel(panel, element) | Activates a panel. Expects a panel's id or the actual object for @panel@, and a jQuery object for @element@. @element@ is the object the Panel was activated from (e.g. a button) |
| expandPanel(panel, callback) | Expands a panel. Put a panel's id or the actual Panel object for @panel@. You can add a @callback@ that triggers after the animation completes |
| collapsePanel(panel, callback) | Collapse a panel. Put a panel's id or the actual Panel object for @panel@. You can add a @callback@ that triggers after the animation completes |
| addPanel(panel) | Add a new Panel to the sidebar. Specify your options as an object in @panel@. Also see "Sidebar Panels":#sidebar-panels for additional information |

h3. Sidebar Panels

Each Sidebar is made of Panels that act as containers for your HTML code. Panels provide an API for you to interact with them.

To add a new Panel to a Sidebar use the Sidebar's @addPanel()@ method and specify your options in an object:

<javascript>
var panel = Aloha.Sidebar.right.addPanel({
	// the id of your new Panel
	id: 'new-panel',
	// title to be set for your Panel
    title     : 'Sidebar Demo Panel',
    // initial html content of your panel
    content     : '<p>Demo content!</p>',
    // whether the panel should be expanded initially
    expanded : true
});
</javascript>

h4. Panel API

You can use the following Panel methods in your implementations:

|_. Method |_. Description |
| activate() | Shows the Panel |
| deactivate() | Hides the Panel |
| expand() | Expands the panel to display it's contents |
| collapse() | Collapses the panel so only it's title bar is displayed |
| setTitle(html) | Update the Panel's title |
| setContent(html) | Update the Panel's content |
