h2. Translate Aloha Editor and Plugins

In this guide you will learn how to use translations within Aloha Editor.

endprologue.

Aloha Editor and plugins (UI components) can be translated into your favorite language.
Translations are made on gengo.com and will be imported via a build script.

h3. Translate strings on gengo.com

Navigate to the translation interface on "gengo.com":http://gengo.com/string/p/aloha-editor-1/

If you are not already registerd you can "request access":http://gengo.com/string/p/aloha-editor-1/access/request to the Aloha Editor project -- please tell us what language you would like to translate.


h3. ISO Codes

We stick to the "ISO-639-1 languages codes":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes

h3. Import strings from gengo.com

To import all 100 % translated languages into Aloha Editor navigate to +build/gengo/+ (in the development version you got from Github) and run the following command in the terminal:
<shell>
	php gengo-export.php
</shell>

If you want to import a specific translation (eg. German with the ISO code +de+) run the following command:
<shell>
	php gengo-export.php de
</shell>
Note that in this case it's not required that the translation is 100 % complete.


To see a list of the available languages / a short help message type:
<shell>
	php gengo-export.php -h
</shell>


h3. Configuration and available translations

To configure Aloha Editor to use a specific language (in this case German) use the following configuration:
<javascript>
Aloha.settings.locale = "de";
</javascript>

By default all languages which are 100 % translated are available.

For a list of available languages in Aloha Editor see: "gengo.com":http://gengo.com/string/p/aloha-editor-1/) or have a look at +lib/aloha/nls/+


h3. Notes

When writing a plugin which is hosted on http://github.com/alohaeditor/ you'll just need to add the master file for English -- this can be imported into gengo.com
Translations for other languages should always be exported from gengo.com
