h2. The Aloha Editor UI

endprologue.

h3. The Aloha-Editor UI is a plugin

To use the Aloha-Editor UI, the UI plugin must be added to the list of
plugins that are to be loaded. For example:

<html>
<script src="aloha.js"
        data-aloha-plugins="common/ui,common/format"></script>
</html>

Most plugins depend on the UI plugin and JavaScript errors will occur if
it they are loaded but the UI plugin is not.

requirejs can be configured such that the ui/* namespace points to your
own UI implementation (see requirejs documentation, in particular the
paths setting). This should only be done for modules where all exposed
functions and the module itself all carry an API annotation. The
ui/ui-plugin module is the entry-point of the UI plugin, and is the most
likely place to override with custom behaviour.

h3. Adopting components into the UI

To add a new component to the UI, a component type may be required,
extended, instantiated and adopted. This can be done in a single call
like this:

<javascript>
Aloha.require(['ui/ui', 'ui/button'], function(Ui, Button) {
    var button = Ui.adopt("myButton", Button, {
        click: function(){
            alert("Click!");
        }
    });
});
</javascript>

The Ui.adopt() call will instantiate a new button and display it as part
of the Aloha-Editor UI.

Please see the ui/ui module and the individual component modules
(src/plugins/common/ui/lib) for more information.

h3. Configuration

The Toolbar is made up of *tabs* and *groups*. The following example
defines a toolbar with the three tabs *Format*, *Insert* and
*Link*. Groups are nested lists of component names and are visually
distinguished when displayed in the toolbar.

The tab labels are passed to @i18n@ which translates them to the display
language. 

When a plugin calls Ui.adopt(componentName, ...), the adopted component
will appear in the toolbar, at the place where the component name
appears in the configuration.

Most components will be displayed inline (next to each other). The
special string '\n' will force the following component to be displayed
below the preceding components.

<javascript>
Aloha.settings.toolbar = {
    tabs: [
    	{
        	label: 'Format',
    		components: [
                [ 'bold', 'italic', 'underline', '\n',
				  'subscript', 'superscript', 'strikethrough' ],
			    [ 'formatBlock' ]
            ]
    	},
		{
        	label: 'Insert',
            exclusive: true,
			components: [
                "createTable", "characterPicker", "insertLink",
            ]
    	},
    	{
        	label: 'Link',
    		components: [ 'editlink' ]
    	}
    ],
    exclude: [ 'strong', 'emphasis', 'strikethrough' ]
};
</javascript>

The UI plugin merges this toolbar configuration with the default toolbar
configuration. The default toolbar configuration can be looked up in
src/plugins/common/ui/lib/settings.js.

The merge rules are as follows
* remove all components and tabs from the default toolbar configuration
  that are listed in Aloha.settings.toolbar.exclude,
* add all remaining tabs from the default configuration to the user
  configuration,
* and merge tabs with the same name such that a tab property that is
  omitted in the user configuration will be taken from the default
  configuration,
* and, if both the default tab and the user's tab configuration contain
  a components property, and unless the exclusive property on a tab is
  true, append all remaining components from the default tab to the
  user's tab configuration.
