h2. Aloha Core Plugins

After reading this guide, you will:

* know about the core plugins of Aloha Editor
* know which components are provided by each of them

endprologue.


Each plugin will provide you with components (buttons, input fields, ...) that can be added to the toolbar or sidebar. 

h3. Format Plugin

The Format Plugin provides basic formatting choices for your content.

h4. Components
* cite - format content as a citation
* quote - format content as a quote
* code - format content as a code block
* emphasize - emphasize content
* strong (not def command) - put strong emphasis on content
* bold - format content bold
* italic - format content italic
* strikethrough - add strikethrough formatting
* subscript - add subscript formatting
* superscript - add superscript formatting
* underline - add underline formatting
* paragraph - will allow you to add paragraph formattings (address, dd, div, dt, h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6, p, pre)

h4. Configuration

The format plugin provides the following config options:
<javascript>
Aloha.plugins.format = {
	// configure buttons available in the toolbar
	config : [ 'b', 'i', 'p', 'sub', 'sup', 'del', 'title', 'h1', 'h2', 'h3', 'h4', 'h5', 'h6', 'pre', 'removeFormat' ],
	// specific configuration for each editable identified by css selectors
	editables : {
		// the editable with id "teaser" won't offer any formatting options
		'#teaser'	: [  ]
	},
	// those are the tags that will be cleaned when clicking "remove formatting"
	removeFormats : [ 'strong', 'em', 'b', 'i', 'cite', 'q', 'code', 'abbr', 'del', 'sub', 'sup']
}
</javascript>

h3. Link Plugin

The Link Plugin allows you to add hyperlinks to your document, either by specifying them manually or by selecting from repositories using autocompletion.

h4. Components
* formatLink - will format a given selection as a link by wrapping it in an +<a>+ tag. If the selection is collapsed +createLink+ will be executed
* createLink - will insert a new link tag with an empty href into the dom at the current cursor position
* editLink - allows you to edit an existing link
* unlink - removes an existing link by unwrapping

h4. Configuration
<javascript>
Aloha.plugins.link: {
	// all elements with no specific configuration may insert links
	config : [ 'a' ],
	editables : {
	// No links in the title.
	'#top-text'	: [  ]
	},
	// all links that match the targetregex will get set the target
	// e.g. ^(?!.*aloha-editor.com).* matches all href except aloha-editor.com
	targetregex : '^(?!.*aloha-editor.com).*',
	// this target is set when either targetregex matches or not set
	// e.g. _blank opens all links in new window
	target : '_blank',
	// the same for css class as for target
	cssclassregex : '^(?!.*aloha-editor.com).*',
	cssclass : 'aloha',
	// use all resources of type website for autosuggest
	objectTypeFilter: [ 'website' ],
	// handle change of href
	onHrefChange: function( obj, href, item ) {
		var jQuery = Aloha.require('aloha/jquery');
		if ( item ) {
			jQuery(obj).attr('data-name', item.name);
		} else {
			jQuery(obj).removeAttr('data-name');
		}
	}
};
</javascript>

h3. Abbr Plugin

The Abbr Plugin will wrap selected contents within an +<abbr>+ tag. You can then specify a title text to describe the abbreviation.

h4. Components

* formatAbbr - format selection as an abbreviation
* createAbbr - insert new abbreviation
* editAbbr - edit existing abbreviation
* abbrText - UIAttributeField for text input
* removeAbbr - remove abbreviation from selection

h4. Configuration settings

Currently there is no configuration for the Abbr Plugin.


* September 1, 2011: Initial version by "Haymo Meran":credits.html#haymo and "Scott Gonzales":credits.html#scottgonzales

